Update `osu!stream` (#6360)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/osu!stream/en.md

# osu!stream

![](img/Os-Logo.jpg "osu!stream logo")

> **osu!stream** is a version of osu! built from scratch that is made especially for touch-enabled devices. It is currently available for Apple's [iOS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOS) platform only. The development ended in 2020 and is to be seen as finished. An [Android](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Android_%28operating_system%29) port was planned but not implemented yet. For more information, read the [blog post](https://blog.ppy.sh/osu-stream-2020-release/) about its last release.

Reviewer: Android support is in a working state these days, I need to do a final review pass on it but it will likely be available this year.

Reviewer 2: Can be mentioned/announced later

> **osu!stream** is a version of osu! built from scratch that is made especially for touch-enabled devices. It is currently available for Apple's [iOS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOS) platform only. The development ended in 2020 and is to be seen as finished. An [Android](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Android_%28operating_system%29) port was planned but not implemented yet. For more information, read the [blog post](https://blog.ppy.sh/osu-stream-2020-release/) about its last release.

Reviewer: If you want to add more context regarding the android release, you can mention that it was never released due to android device timing not being tight enough to support rhythm games. I actually tested on android back when it was first released and just couldn't bear pushing it out due to how bad the sync was of hitsounds.

"An android release was planned but never released due to hardware deficiencies" might read better.

> **osu!stream** is a version of osu! built from scratch that is made especially for touch-enabled devices. It is currently available for Apple's [iOS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOS) platform only. The development ended in 2020 and is to be seen as finished. An [Android](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Android_%28operating_system%29) port was planned but not implemented yet. For more information, read the [blog post](https://blog.ppy.sh/osu-stream-2020-release/) about its last release.

Reviewer 2: Is it a hardware deficiency if android was at fault? Or do you mean apple hardware was just better™️?

> **osu!stream** is a version of osu! built from scratch that is made especially for touch-enabled devices. It is currently available for Apple's [iOS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOS) platform only. The development ended in 2020 and is to be seen as finished. An [Android](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Android_%28operating_system%29) port was planned but not implemented yet. For more information, read the [blog post](https://blog.ppy.sh/osu-stream-2020-release/) about its last release.

Reviewer: Even to this day android is a nightmare for audio latency. But when osu!stream was a thing we're talking 100ms+ delays, which made gameplay impossible to enjoy. This was before google android hardware even existed. It was all shit.

> **osu!stream** is a version of osu! built from scratch that is made especially for touch-enabled devices. It is currently available for Apple's [iOS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOS) platform only. The development ended in 2020 and is to be seen as finished. An [Android](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Android_%28operating_system%29) port was planned but not implemented yet. For more information, read the [blog post](https://blog.ppy.sh/osu-stream-2020-release/) about its last release.

Reviewer 2: edited

> It introduces a brand new gameplay system such as the hold circle and connected beats. It does not support classic osu! beatmaps. Instead, maps are created by a special team of mappers to take advantage of the new elements and adhere to a stricter level of standards. All maps are available for free at the "Store".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It introduces a brand new gameplay system such as the hold circle and connected beats. It does not support classic osu! beatmaps without manual conversion. Instead, maps are created by a special team of mappers to take advantage of the new elements and adhere to a stricter level of standards. All maps are available for free at the "Store".
```

Not sure if you want to mention this here, but the conversion tools are provided as part of the open source release, so you can actually play any beatmap if you're willing to put in the effort.

Reviewer: Also is it worth saying that some beatmaps were purchasable in the past? Losing a bit of historical context by saying that all beatmaps are free.

Author: > It introduced a brand new gameplay system, with new gameplay elements such as hold circles and connected beats. It does not support classic osu! beatmaps without manual conversion (the tools for conversion are provided in the open source release). Instead, maps were created by a special team of mappers to take advantage of the new elements and adhere to a [stricter level of standards](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FYmHhRX-onR-osgTS6uHSOZuu_0JEbfRZePVySvvr9g). All maps are available for free at the "Store". Previously, some were purchasable as beatmap packs.

How about this one? I think this is a good in-between.

Author: ```suggestion
It introduced a brand new gameplay system, with new gameplay elements such as hold circles and connected beats. It does not support classic osu! beatmaps without manual conversion (the tools for conversion are provided in the open source release). Instead, maps were created by a special team of mappers to take advantage of the new elements and adhere to a [stricter level of standards](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FYmHhRX-onR-osgTS6uHSOZuu_0JEbfRZePVySvvr9g).
```

[osu!stream was elaborated in osu!monthly \#5 along with an interview.](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/59924)

> The source code is available for everyone curious enough on its [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ppy/osu-stream).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source code was made available in 2020 under a permissive licence on [GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu-stream).
```

Reviewer 2: In my review, I have rearranged some information around the neighbourhood of this paragraph to be more cohesive

```suggestion
Development for this version ended in 2020. For more information, read the [blog post](https://blog.ppy.sh/osu-stream-2020-release/) about its last release. The source code has been made available in 2020 under a permissive license on [GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu-stream) for anyone curious, and all previously paid maps are available for free from the in-game "Store".
```

> Development for this version ended in 2020. For more information, read the [blog post](https://blog.ppy.sh/osu-stream-2020-release/) about its last release. The source code has been made available in the same year under a permissive license on [GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu-stream) for anyone curious, and all previously paid maps are now available for free from the in-game "Store".

Reviewer 2: If it's going in, then it'd be here.

```suggestion
Development for this version ended in 2020. For more information, read the [blog post](https://blog.ppy.sh/osu-stream-2020-release/) about its last release. The source code along with beatmap conversion and testing tools has been made available in the same year under a permissive license on [GitHub](https://github.com/ppy/osu-stream) for anyone curious, and all previously paid maps are now available for free from the in-game "Store".
```

![](img/Os-HC2.jpg "Hold circle 2")

- Hold circle requires the player to hold the circle until the circle "explodes".

> - The hit accuracy is determined by how early/late hit and holding time is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The hit accuracy is determined by how early or late it was hit and whether it was held until completion.
```

  - If the hold was released before the circle "explodes", combo multiplier will reset to 0 but the hold circle will not incur a miss as long as the hold circle is touched.
  - If the player did not hold the circle, the HP will be taken as long as the hold circle has not exploded by itself.

> - Hold circle can be determined by having a "hold" at the circle with a purple colour background bordered by white colour as the permanent default colour scheme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Scoring

> *Note: The leaderboard can still be viewed in-game but is frozen.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Notice: The leaderboard can still be viewed in-game, but no new scores will be accepted.*
```

| **HitValue** | (Number of misses \* 0 + Number of 50's \* 1 + Number of 100's * 2 + Number of 300's \* 4) |

> | **PerfectHitValue** | (Number of misses + Number of 50's + Number of 100's + Number of 300's) \* 4 |

Author: `Number of ...` is fine in my opinion. Maybe a bit more readable for someone who reads about the scoring system of osu!stream (and osu! in general) for the first time.

> | **PerfectHitValue** | (Number of misses + Number of 50's + Number of 100's + Number of 300's) \* 4 |

Reviewer 2: Maybe, but the apostrophes should be removed

> | **HitValue** | (Number of misses \* 0 + Number of 50's \* 1 + Number of 100's * 2 + Number of 300's \* 4) |
> | **PerfectHitValue** | (Number of misses + Number of 50's + Number of 100's + Number of 300's) \* 4 |

Author: ```suggestion
| **HitValue** | (Number of misses \* 0 + Number of 50s \* 1 + Number of 100s * 2 + Number of 300s \* 4) |
| **PerfectHitValue** | (Number of misses + Number of 50s + Number of 100s + Number of 300s) \* 4 |
```

The following each add a point to the score multiplier:

- A successful hit on the hit circle.
- A successful hold on the hold circle.
- A successful hit at the start of a slider.
- Successfully touched the end of a slider.
- Successfully touched on the slider tick.

> - Successfully completed a spinner.

Author: Can I commit this now or do you need more time?

> - Successfully completed a spinner.

Reviewer 2: I've checked and it's basically like what you'd expect from regular osu
(using hold tick for lack of a better term, they're basically sliders after all)

![](img/Os-SUN.jpg "Example of Stream Up! from Normal")

In **Stream Mode** however, the player is given **three lifebars and the player starts with the second half-filled lifebar at start**. Players (gain/lose) the lifebar by (Stream Up!/Stream Down!) a message for (filling the lifebar full/using up all the HP on that lifebar). After the message is shown, the game will show an animation at the background which (tunes up/tunes down) the difficulty and issues a half-filled lifebar. If a player is issued a "Stream Down!", the player is given temporary invisibility (due to no health left in the currently using lifebar) until the animation is completed in which the lifebar will be substituted with a half-filled one from the previous difficulty.

In **Expert Mode, a full one lifebar is issued**.

> In terms of getting life for lifebar, it is explained as in below.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The player gains life from:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following fills the lifebar
```

> - Hit allowed: 300, 100, osu!, gold good! and green good!.
>   - Hitting the hit circle(s). (Better judgement leads to more life gain. The last hit circle in a colour combo awards more life.)
>   - Hitting the slider(s) start, end or return tick. (Better judgement at the end tick leads to more life gain)
>   - Completing the Spinner and Hold Bubble(s) properly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Completing spinners and Hold Bubbles.
- Hitting an osu!, gold good!, green good!, 300, or 100, 
  - For hit circles, better judgements fills the lifebar more. The last hit circle in a colour combo awards more life.
  - For sliders, the lifebar is filled according to how many parts were completed, once the slider has been completed.
```

Author: It needs to be `better judgements fill`, doesn't it?

> The player loses life from:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following drains the lifebar:
```

> - Hit cause: 50 or Miss
> - Missing any hit object or slider.
> - Not following the slider(s).
> - Not holding the Hold Bubble until it explodes.
> - Unable to complete the spinner with "Clear" message.
> - Not spinning the spinner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Receiving a 50.
- Missing any hit object or slider.
- Not staying within a slider's follow circle.
- Not holding a Hold Bubble until it explodes.
- Not spinning a spinner.
- Not completing a spinner with "Clear" message.
```

> The player reserves life from:
> 
> - Default. **Lifebar will not drain at all while playing**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike other versions of osu!, the lifebar does not drain by itself.
```

> Head to the "Store" section in the game or pressing the "Download more songs..." at the "Play" section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Head to the "Store" section in the game or pressing the "Download more songs..." in the "Play" section.
```

> The beatmaps are in bundle, and some are priced. Make sure to look out of the price tag before buying to prevent *accidental purchase*.

Reviewer: Keep but change "are" to "were" and mention the blog post announcing it would be free?

## Links

> - [Official website](http://www.osustream.com) (outdated)

Reviewer: How is it outdated?

Reviewer: Hmm.. fair I guess.
